Add blog post: Coding on the Road with Android and Cody (#6719)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2024/coding-on-the-road-with-android-cody.md

---
title: "Coding on the road with Android and Cody"
authors:
  - name: Tino Wening
    url: https://twitter.com/PriNova75
  

> publishDate: 2024-02-06T10:00-07:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publishDate: 2024-02-20T10:00-07:00
```

> description: "This post is a fun and informal guide for digital nomads, showcasing how Termux and Cody turn your tablet into a beach-friendly coding hub. It's all about ditching the laptop for a lightweight setup with Termux's Linux shell, VS Code's web version, and Cody."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "An informal guide for digital nomads, showcasing how Termux and Cody turn your tablet into a beach-friendly coding hub. Ditch the laptop for a lightweight setup with Termux's Linux shell, Visual Studio Code's web interface, and Cody."
```

tags: [blog]
slug: "coding-on-the-road-with-android-cody"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-on-the-road/coding-on-the-road-with-android-cody-og.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-on-the-road/coding-on-the-road-with-android-cody-og.png
---

<Alert type="secondary">This is a guest blog post from our community. <a href="https://discord.com/servers/sourcegraph-969688426372825169" target="_blank">Join our Discord</a> to meet the author and connect with other developers passionate about Code Search and AI!</Alert>

> **Hey there, fellow Digital Nomads!** Craving that perfect blend of beachside cocktails and coding deadlines? Ever wished your hotel room came with a built-in IDE, not just a mini bar? Well, strap on your walking shoes and ditch the laptop, because we're about to unlock the secret to mobile coding freedom: Termux and Cody.

Reviewer: Can we link to the Termux homepage as well as /cody when we mention these two at the end.

Author: done!

Think of Termux as your secret Swiss Army knife for Android. It's a Linux shell disguised as an app, giving you access to a whole ecosystem of developer tools, right on your tablet. No more lugging around heavy laptops, just whip out your trusty tablet and get coding under that palm tree. 

But wait, there's more! Termux isn't just a fancy terminal, it's your portal to a full-fledged coding environment. 

> Enter VS Code, the lightweight code editor that's like your coding bestie. Imagine VS Code, but shrunk down and living inside Termux, ready to party anywhere you go. Open it in any browser, on any device, and boom – instant coding paradise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter Visual Studio Code (VS Code), the lightweight code editor that's like your coding bestie. Imagine VS Code, but shrunk down and living inside Termux, ready to party anywhere you go. Open it in any browser, on any device, and boom – instant coding paradise.
```

Here's the quick and dirty guide for the installation wizards among you:

```bash
pkg install tur-repo
pkg update
pkg upgrade -y
pkg install -y \
  build-essential \
  binutils \
  pkg-config \
  python3 \
  nodejs-lts
node -v
pkg install code-server
```

Now, unleash the coding beast with one final command: `code-server .`

Open up your browser and navigate to [localhost:8080](http://127.0.0.1:8080) and **Boom!** You've officially got VS Code Web up and running, ready to code like there's no tomorrow even if you're coding on a beach in Bali. Visit the [coder docs](https://coder.com/docs/code-server/latest/termux#installation) for more information and issues.

Finally, the pièce de résistance: Cody, your AI coding sidekick. Download the extension from within VS Code Web extensions tab.

<Figure 
  src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-on-the-road/image2.jpg"
  alt="Screenshot of my tablet with Termux on the left and VS Code with Cody on the right"
  caption="Screenshot of my tablet with Termux on the left and VS Code with Cody on the right"
/>

> ## Cody: Your AI-powered Copilot for Android Development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cody: Your AI-powered assistant for Android development
```

Remember that moment when Luke Skywalker first met Obi-Wan Kenobi? That "whoah, this coding life just got a whole lot cooler" feeling? Well, Cody's basically his coding equivalent – your AI sidekick who elevates your Android development game to Jedi-level. No more staring blankly at the screen, struggling with syntax or logic. Cody's got your back.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Whether you're building a simple game or a complex social media app, Cody is your secret weapon. 

Here's how Cody can help you build Android apps:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* **Speed up your development:** Forget wasting time on boilerplate code or debugging simple errors. Cody takes care of those pesky details, letting you focus on the big picture.

The possibilities are endless, nomads! With Cody, you can build games, productivity apps, social media platforms – anything your nomadic heart desires. And you can do it all from the comfort of your hammock, beach towel, or even that questionable air mattress you found in a hostel in Laos.

With Cody by your side, you'll be coding Android apps like a pro, no matter where your nomadic adventures take you.

<Figure 
  src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-on-the-road/image3.jpg"
  alt="Codying on the beach"
  caption="Codying on the beach"
/>

## Bonus: Nomad coding hacks and fun facts

Alright digital nomads, we've unlocked the secrets of coding on the go with Termux, VS Code Web, and Cody. But the adventure doesn't stop there! This bonus chapter is your one-stop shop for optimizing your nomadic coding experience and uncovering some fun facts to fuel your wanderlust.

### Termux tweaks for the tech-savvy Nomad

> * **Power up your shell:** Don't settle for the default bash shell! Install zsh for a more customizable and powerful experience with plugins, themes, and autocompletion.

Reviewer: can we link to zsh homepage?

Author: sure thing

Author: Done

---
title: "Coding on the Road with Android and Cody"
authors:
  - name: Tino Wening
    url: https://twitter.com/PriNova75
  
publishDate: 2024-02-06T10:00-07:00

> description: "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum."

Reviewer: Need to add a description here.

tags: [blog]
slug: "coding-on-the-road-with-android-cody"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-on-the-road/coding-on-the-road-with-android-cody-og.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-on-the-road/coding-on-the-road-with-android-cody-og.png
---

<Alert type="secondary">This is a guest blog post from our community. <a href="https://discord.com/servers/sourcegraph-969688426372825169" target="_blank">Join our Discord</a> to meet the author and connect with other developers passionate about Code Search and AI!</Alert>

> **Hey there, fellow Digital Nomads!** Craving that perfect blend of beachside cocktails and coding deadlines? Ever wished your hotel room came with a built-in IDE, not just a mini bar? Well, strap on your walking shoes and ditch the laptop, because we're about to unlock the secret to mobile coding freedom: **Termux and Cody.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Hey there, fellow Digital Nomads!** Craving that perfect blend of beachside cocktails and coding deadlines? Ever wished your hotel room came with a built-in IDE, not just a mini bar? Well, strap on your walking shoes and ditch the laptop, because we're about to unlock the secret to mobile coding freedom: Termux and Cody.
```

> **Think of Termux as your secret Swiss Army knife for Android.** It's a Linux shell disguised as an app, giving you access to a whole ecosystem of developer tools, right on your tablet. No more lugging around heavy laptops, just whip out your trusty tablet and get coding under that palm tree. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Think of Termux as your secret Swiss Army knife for Android. It's a Linux shell disguised as an app, giving you access to a whole ecosystem of developer tools, right on your tablet. No more lugging around heavy laptops, just whip out your trusty tablet and get coding under that palm tree. 
```

Can we also link to Termux github or website?

> **But wait, there's more!** Termux isn't just a fancy terminal, it's your portal to a full-fledged coding environment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But wait, there's more! Termux isn't just a fancy terminal, it's your portal to a full-fledged coding environment. 
```

> Enter **VS Code, the lightweight code editor that's like your coding bestie.** Imagine VS Code, but shrunk down and living inside Termux, ready to party anywhere you go. Open it in any browser, on any device, and boom – instant coding paradise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter VS Code, the lightweight code editor that's like your coding bestie. Imagine VS Code, but shrunk down and living inside Termux, ready to party anywhere you go. Open it in any browser, on any device, and boom – instant coding paradise.
```

> **But the real magic spell comes with Cody.** Think of Cody as the Obi-Wan Kenobi to your coding Luke Skywalker. He autocompletes your code, suggests solutions, and even refactors your messy bits like a coding Yoda. No more staring blankly at the screen, Cody's got your back (and your code's future).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But the real magic spell comes with Cody. Think of Cody as the Obi-Wan Kenobi to your coding Luke Skywalker. Cody autocompletes your code, suggests solutions, and even refactors your messy bits like a coding Yoda. No more staring blankly at the screen, Cody's got your back (and your code's future).
```

<Figure 
  src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-on-the-road/image1.jpg"
  alt="Cody as the Obi-Wan Kenobi "
  caption="Cody as the Obi-Wan Kenobi "
/>

> So, ditch the laptop blues and embrace the nomadic coding revolution. With Termux, VS Code, and Cody, the world is your office, and every sunrise is a new coding adventure. Ready to level up your mobile coding game? Buckle up, let's dive into the nitty-gritty!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Termux, VS Code, and Cody, the world is your office, and every sunrise is a new coding adventure. Ready to level up your mobile coding game? Buckle up, let's dive into the nitty-gritty!
```

> Unleashing Your Inner Coding Nomad - Installing Termux, VS Code Web, and Cody

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Unleashing Your Inner Coding Nomad - Installing Termux, VS Code Web, and Cody
```

> Alright, code warriors, time to roll up our sleeves and get our hands dirty! We're about to transform your tablet into a coding powerhouse, and trust me, it's easier than wrangling a stubborn Wi-Fi hotspot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alright, time to roll up our sleeves and get our hands dirty! We're about to transform your tablet into a coding powerhouse, and trust me, it's easier than wrangling a stubborn Wi-Fi hotspot.
```

> **First up, Termux, our trusty Linux in disguise.** Ditch the Google Play Store, we're going rogue with f-droid, the independent app haven. Here's the link, bookmark it like your grandma's secret cookie recipe: [Termux (F-Droid)](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/com.termux/) Just tap, install, and boom – instant Linux playground!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First up, Termux. Ditch the Google Play Store, we're going rogue with f-droid, the independent app haven. Here's the link: [Termux (F-Droid)](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/com.termux/) Just tap, install, and boom – instant Linux playground!
```

> **Next up, VS Code Web.** It's like magic, but without the capes and weird spells. Just a few quick commands in Termux, and voila – you'll have a web-based coding playground ready to rock.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next up, VS Code Web. It's like magic, but without the capes and weird spells. Just a few quick commands in Termux, and voila – you'll have a web-based coding playground ready to rock.
```

Here's the quick and dirty guide for the installation wizards among you:

```bash
pkg install tur-repo
pkg update
pkg upgrade -y
pkg install -y \
  build-essential \
  binutils \
  pkg-config \
  python3 \
  nodejs-lts
node -v
pkg install code-server
```

Now, unleash the coding beast with one final command: `code-server .`

> Open up your browser with the [localhost](http://127.0.0.1:8080) address and **Boom!** You've officially got VS Code Web up and running, ready to code like there's no tomorrow even if you're coding on a beach in Bali. Visit the [coder docs](https://coder.com/docs/code-server/latest/termux#installation) for more information and issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open up your browser and navigate to [localhost:8080](http://127.0.0.1:8080) and **Boom!** You've officially got VS Code Web up and running, ready to code like there's no tomorrow even if you're coding on a beach in Bali. Visit the [coder docs](https://coder.com/docs/code-server/latest/termux#installation) for more information and issues.
```

> **Finally, the pièce de résistance: Cody, your AI coding sidekick.** Download the extension from within VS Code Web (it's like adding sprinkles to your coding sundae!), and get ready for some serious code-fu magic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the pièce de résistance: Cody, your AI coding sidekick. Download the extension from within VS Code Web extensions tab.
```

<Figure 
  src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-on-the-road/image2.jpg"
  alt="Screenshot of my tablet with Termux on the left and VS Code with Cody on the right"
  caption="Screenshot of my tablet with Termux on the left and VS Code with Cody on the right"
/>

> Cody: Your AI-powered Copilot for Android Development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cody: Your AI-powered Copilot for Android Development
```

> Remember that moment when Luke Skywalker first met Obi-Wan Kenobi? That "whoah, this coding life just got a whole lot cooler" feeling? Well, Cody's basically his coding equivalent – your AI sidekick who elevates your Android development game to Jedi-level. No more staring blankly at the screen, struggling with syntax or logic. Cody's got your back (and your code's future).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that moment when Luke Skywalker first met Obi-Wan Kenobi? That "whoah, this coding life just got a whole lot cooler" feeling? Well, Cody's basically his coding equivalent – your AI sidekick who elevates your Android development game to Jedi-level. No more staring blankly at the screen, struggling with syntax or logic. Cody's got your back.
```

> **Building Android apps with Cody: From idea to app, Cody helps you write clean and efficient code.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Whether you're building a simple game or a complex social media app, Cody's your secret weapon. He understands Android development specificities, offering suggestions and tools tailored for the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether you're building a simple game or a complex social media app, Cody is your secret weapon. 
```

Here's how Cody can help you build Android apps:

* **Android-specific suggestions:** Cody knows all the ins and outs, offering suggestions for activities, layouts, and even resource files.
* **Help with complex tasks:** Need to implement a custom view or handle complex logic? Cody's got your back, providing code snippets and examples to get you started.
* **Speed up your development:** Forget wasting time on boilerplate code or debugging simple errors. Cody takes care of those pesky details, letting you focus on the big picture.

The possibilities are endless, nomads! With Cody, you can build games, productivity apps, social media platforms – anything your nomadic heart desires. And you can do it all from the comfort of your hammock, beach towel, or even that questionable air mattress you found in a hostel in Laos.

> Remember, Cody's not here to replace you, he's here to empower you. Think of him as your coding partner, your AI cheerleader, your personal Yoda (minus the green skin and backwards talk). With Cody by your side, you'll be coding Android apps like a pro, no matter where your nomadic adventures take you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Cody by your side, you'll be coding Android apps like a pro, no matter where your nomadic adventures take you.
```

<Figure 
  src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/cody-on-the-road/image3.jpg"
  alt="Codying on the beach"
  caption="Codying on the beach"
/>

> Bonus: Nomad Coding Hacks and Fun Facts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Bonus: Nomad Coding Hacks and Fun Facts
```

> Alright, fellow digital nomads, we've unlocked the secrets of coding on the go with Termux, VS Code Web, and Cody. But the adventure doesn't stop there! This bonus chapter is your one-stop shop for optimizing your nomadic coding experience and uncovering some fun facts to fuel your wanderlust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alright digital nomads, we've unlocked the secrets of coding on the go with Termux, VS Code Web, and Cody. But the adventure doesn't stop there! This bonus chapter is your one-stop shop for optimizing your nomadic coding experience and uncovering some fun facts to fuel your wanderlust.
```

> **Termux Tweaks for the Tech-Savvy Nomad:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Termux Tweaks for the Tech-Savvy Nomad
```

* **Power Up Your Shell:** Don't settle for the default bash shell! Install zsh for a more customizable and powerful experience with plugins, themes, and autocompletion.
* **Keyboard Ninja Moves:** Master essential keyboard shortcuts for faster navigation and editing. Learn to copy, paste, and yank like a pro!
* **Remote Access:** Manage your Termux environment from anywhere! Set up SSH access to remotely connect and tinker with your code from another device.

> **Fun Facts to Fuel Your Nomadic Coding Soul:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Fun Facts to Fuel Your Nomadic Coding Soul
```
